---
title: Display elements
description: Main screen areas, InfoBoxes, overlays, gauges, menus, and dialogue windows explained.
---

## Main screen and screen pages

Every screen page out of XCSoar’s screen pages’ ensemble is composed of several
parts:

### Main area

The bulk of the screen typically is dedicated to the GPS moving map display.
Various symbols relating to glide computer information are overlaid the map
area. Icons and text may appear along the lower edge of the screen to indicate
status of connected devices, flight modes etc. Following the development process
of XCSoar there is an increasing number of items that may be chosen for display
in the main area, which are gauges, FLARM Radar, Thermal Assistant and Horizon.

### InfoBoxes

A grid of data values is displayed usually either along the top and bottom of
the screen (portrait display) or to the left and right of the screen (landscape
display).  These so-called InfoBoxes display data from the GPS and other input
devices as well as data calculated by XCSoar. Further, InfoBoxes can even
display gauges and certain graphs.

### Bottom area

At the bottom of the screen, XCSoar is able to draw a cross- section of terrain
and airspaces in the direction of your heading.



## Overlays

### Gauges

Gauges provide instrumentation displays. All gauges are optional and some may
only have meaningful information displayed when XCSoar is connected to a
supported instrument. A gauge overlay is either permanently drawn or is invoked
by several conditions.  E.g. the thermal assistant is shown, when XCSoar enters
circling mode. The FLARM radar is invoked, whenever a probable collision is
detected. Permanently overlaid gauges are the final glide bar as well as the
vario bar amongst others.

### Button labels and menus

Hardware buttons on the device running XCSoar can be used to bring up and
navigate smaller on-screen menus that are typically laid out such that menu
items can be selected by pressing the button adjacent to the item.  If the
device has a touch screen, the menu items can be selected by touching them.
These buttons are drawn in black text on a grey background.

### Status messages

Text is displayed over the screen in status message boxes.  This text is used to
present detailed information to the pilot when certain events occur.

### Dialogue windows

Larger dialogue windows, usually containing graphics and buttons, are used to
present detailed data to the pilot regarding waypoint details, statistics and
analysis etc.

### Main menu

The main menu is accessible by double tapping the map area or InfoBoxes as well
as through gesture. If the menu buttons are not pressed after a specified time,
they disappear again so as to not obscure the map area.

<Gesture id="DU"></Gesture>



## Classic vario gauge

As said above, gauges might be displayed in different ways, either as an
InfoBox, overlay, or even in the main area. The traditional variometer gauge is
different. This needle-style gauge is invoked permanently by choosing an InfoBox
layout including the variometer on the right side of the other InfoBoxes.
