---
title: Menu item overview
description: 
---

## Navigation menu

### Nav 1/2

* [`Task`](\ref{cha:tasks})
* [`Previous Turnpoint`](\ref{sec:advanc-rest-tasks})
* [`Next Turnpoint`](\ref{sec:advanc-rest-tasks})
* [`Waypoint List`](\ref{sec:waypoint-selector-dialog})
* [`Alternates`](\ref{sec:alternates})

### Nav 2/2

* [`Task Abort`](\ref{sec:taskabort})
* [`Mark Drop`](\ref{sec:markers})
* [`Pilot Event`](\ref{sec:pilotevent})
* [`Target`](\ref{sec:waypointdetails})

You should not start using XCSoar without knowing about the “Alternates”
feature. Any “Task” related item in the navigation menu is used for planned
cross country flight and certainly the second step.



## Display menu

### Display 1/2

* [`Zoom In`](\ref{sec:zooming})
* [`Zoom Out`](\ref{sec:zooming})
* [`Zoom Auto`](\ref{sec:zooming})
* [`Info Cruise/...`](\ref{sec:screenpages})
* [`Pan On`](\ref{sec:panning})

### Display 2/2

* [`Labels All/...`](\ref{sec:maplabels})
* [`Trail Full/...`](\ref{sec:trail})
* [`Terrain On/Off`](\ref{sec:terrain_topo})
* [`Topo. On/Off`](\ref{sec:terrain_topo})
* [`Airspace On/Off`](\ref{sec:terrain_topo})

Most of the display menu items are available on gestures, or special key
short-cuts of your device. Once you are familiar with XCSoar you probably will
use those menu items less frequently.



## Configuration menu

### Config 1/3

* [`MacCready +`](\ref{sec:stf})
* [`MacCready -`](\ref{sec:stf})
* [`MacCready Auto`](\ref{sec:auto-maccready})
* [`Flight`](\ref{sec:flight-setup})
* [`Wind`](\ref{sec:wind-setup})

### Config 2/3

* [`System`](\ref{sec:configuration})
* [`Plane`](\ref{sec:glidepolar})
* [`Devices`](\ref{sec:comdevices})
* `File Manager`
* [`Replay`](\ref{sec:logger-replay})

### Config 3/3

* [`Logger Start`](\ref{sec:logger})
* [`Raw Logger`](\ref{sec:raw-logger})
* [`Airspace`](\ref{sec:airspace-filter})
* `Vega`
* `Profiles`

The configuration menu is typically part of the ground interaction with XCSoar.
You are not expected to spend much time in-flight with tweaking the
configuration, except you manually adjust wind or MacCready settings. The `Vega'
item gives control over the  Vega intelligent variometer. This comprises a
sub-menu.



## Information menu

### Info 1/3

* [`FLARM Radar`](\ref{sec:flarm-traffic})
* [`METAR TAF`](\ref{sec:metar-taf})
* `What's here?`
* [`Check list`](\ref{sec:checklist})
* [`Analysis`](\ref{sec:analysis-climb})

### Info 2/3

* [`Status`](\ref{sec:flight-status})
* [`Weather`](\ref{sec:weather-forecast})
* [`Team Code`](\ref{sec:team-flying})
* `FLARM Details`
* [`Thermal Assistant`](\ref{sec:thermal-assistant})

### Info 3/3

* [`Credits`](\ref{sec:credits})
* `Airspaces`
* `Message Repeat`

The information menu is always a good address, when not only a clue on how to
set MacCready is requested, but rather more elaborate help on a larger scope
tactical decision on your flight is requested.

<!-- TODO rewrite -->



## The Vega variometer sub-menu of the configuration menu

### Vega 1

* `Airframe Switches`
* `Setup Audio`
* `Manual Demo`
* `Setup Stall`
* `Accel`

### Vega 2

* `ASI Zero`
* `Accel Zero`
* `Store`
* `Cruise Dem`
* `Climb Demo`

The functions in this sub-menu require the Vega intelligent variometer. The menu
can only be accessed if `Vega' is selected as the connected device.



## The pan mode sub-menu of the Display menu

* [`Pan Off`](\ref{sec:panning})
* `Zoom in`
* `Zoom out`
* `What's here?`

This sub-menu unfortunately overlays the full-screen map view of the pan mode.
Its functions are quite evident, although the menu could be replaced by
multi-touch technology or knobs. Besides the essential “exit pan mode” function
the “What's here?” button offers brilliant access to the variety of information
of the map.