---
title: Default menu buttons
description: Reference for XCSoar's default button assignments and dynamic menu label behavior.
---

When no menu is active, (so-called default mode), the horizontal row of buttons
perform the following functions (from left to right):

|||||||
|--------|----------|----------------|---|----------|--------------|
| PC key | 6        | 7              | 8 | 9        | 0            |
| Menu   | `Flight` | `Task Manager` |   | `Target` | `Drop Mark`  |

For all other versions in the default mode, the cursor keys perform
the following functions:

| Key        | Action                                                                     |
|------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Up         | Zoom in                                                                    |
| Down       | Zoom out                                                                   |
| Left       | Drop marker                                                                |
| Right      | Toggle through normal/aux. InfoBoxes and full-screen                       |
| Enter      | Clear status message or suppress FLARM gauge if open and no warning active |



## Dynamic menu labels

Certain menu items have dynamic labels to make it clearer what happens when the
menu item is selected.  Furthermore, items that are not available are greyed out
to indicate that selecting the menu item will not do anything.

The convention used for dynamic menu labels is for the labels to display the
action that will be performed once the menu item is selected. For example
“Lights On” will turn the lights on, and the menu will be updated to display
“Lights Off”, which would then if pressed turn the lights off. This convention
is used throughout XCSoar.

A selection of key dynamic menu items is presented below:

- **Next Turnpoint**
  Greyed out if the task is cleared, or if the active turnpoint is the finish.
  If the currently active turnpoint is the turnpoint prior to the finish, this
  displays "Waypoint finish".

- **Previous Turnpoint**
  Greyed out if the task is cleared, or if the active turnpoint is the start
  and there are no multiple start points. If there are multiple start points
  and the active turnpoint is the start, then this displays "Cycle start" to
  allow selection between the various start points. If the active turnpoint is
  the first turnpoint after the start, this displays "Waypoint Start".

- **Labels All**
  This will turn on all labels available on the map. There are more options to
  only show a reduced set of labels like "Labels Task", thus not cluttering the
  screen too much.

- **Target**
  Greyed out if the task is cleared or in task abort.