---
title: Getting Started
description:
---

To run XCSoar you need to obtain the following:

* a device to run XCSoar on
* XCSoar
* a GPS receiver
* a waypoint file
* an airspace file (optional)
* a map file (optional)

After having installed XCSoar successfully, you might use it instantly. XCSoar
will launch with a ready-to-use pre-configuration. But be aware, that up to this
point your new toy will give you a moving map display only. **Don't
trust the computations.** You have to tell XCSoar which plane you are flying in
advance.  This is done by specifying your plane's data as are polar, weight and
some other data.  However it's always a good idea to study the manual and become
familiar with XCSoar at home.


## How to get the most from XCSoar

In order to achieve your maximum benefit from XCSoar, you are kindly asked to do
some more after having installed the software and downloaded some data files.
`Some more` includes personal and plane data as well as configuration of just a
few features. Unless you are willing to tweak everything XCSoar provides, this
could be done in a rather short time. Necessary steps are summarized in an
*XCSoar Checklist*, given in the next section.

If you are planning to arrange a system with several components engaged in, this
manual will give you valuable advice on both, how to set up things and how to
use them.

If you are a pilot in a hurry, the authors suggest to change to the short form
manual [XCSoar-in-a-Flash](/quick-guide) going through the *XCSoar Checklist*
step by step. The short form manual is available on https://xcsoar.org/docs/#manual.


## XCSoar Checklist

### Bring XCSoar into play

* get hardware and install XCSoar
* get appropriate data files of your flight district
* tell XCSoar which data files to use
* tell XCSoar about the glider's polar & weight
* possibly connect to instruments
* finish setup and familiarize
* mount hardware
* add items listed underneath to your checklists
* make `home`


### Conduct preflight check, including

* setup polar and weight
* setup wind and flight parameters (MC, bugs, QNH)
* possibly setup a task


### Conduct start check, including

* Check wind and flight setup once more


### Fly, enjoy
