---
title: Software installation
description:
---

The software is available as a free download from the XCSoar website
https://xcsoar.org. This section describes which file should be downloaded, and
how to install it.

## On Android

Obtain XCSoar from Google's Android market, or install the `apk` file manually.
Copy the data files on the SD card in the directory `XCSoarData`.


## On a Kobo Mini

The Kobo Mini is a cheap e-book reader.  It has a black and white e-paper screen
with excellent sunlight readability.

Before you begin: back up the internal SD card.  The XCSoar installer may break
the Kobo, though unlikely.  You can always recover the Kobo from a software
failure, but only if you have access to a backup.

To install XCSoar, connect the Kobo to your PC via USB.  The Kobo exposes a mass
storage device to your PC; open it and create a directory called `.kobo` (note
the leading dot).  Download the file `KoboRoot.tgz` from the XCSoar website into
that directory (https://xcsoar.org/hardware/). Unplug the Kobo and reboot it
(switch it off completely, and switch it on again).  You will see the message
`Updating`, and after a few minutes, the Kobo shows a menu that allows you to
launch XCSoar or the Kobo `e-book` reader software.

To copy data files (maps, waypoints, ...) to the Kobo, launch the original Kobo
software (`Nickel`) and connect the Kobo to your PC again.  Copy the files
into a directory called `XCSoarData` at the top level.

Alternatively data files may be downloaded via XCSoar's file manager, after
having invoked a WLAN connection just before launching XCSoar.


### Hacking the Kobo

After installing XCSoar on the Kobo, the new boot script checks for a script
called `XCSoarData/kobo/init.sh` and executes it.  If you know what you're
doing, you can use this script to do things at boot time, for example launch
`inetd` (for `telnet` access).

When you launch `Nickel` (the original e-book firmware), the new boot script
also checks for a script in `XCSoarData/kobo/` named `init_nickel.sh` and
executes it. Again, if you know what you're doing, you can use this script to do
things before `Nickel` is fully started, for example send commands to your
attached vario (to shut it down, to cut the volume, etc...).


### The Power Off Screen

While powered off, XCSoar shows a log of your most recent flights on the screen.
Additionally, if present, it shows the contents of the file
`XCSoarData/kobo/poweroff.txt` at the bottom.  This file can contain arbitrary
text, e.g. contact/owner/emergency information.



## On a Windows PC

Download the program file `XCSoar.exe` (target `PC`) to your hard disk.



## On Unix/Linux

The file downloaded is `xcsoar_XXX.deb`, where `XXX` includes
the version number and platform, e.g. `xcsoar_6.0.4_i386.deb`.
This is a Debian package and can be installed using

```
sudo dpkg -i xcsoar_XXX.deb
```

Use `dpkg-query -L xcsoar` to see where the executable and other files are
installed, Additional data files must be placed in the directory `~/.xcsoar`. If
`~/.xcsoar` does not exist, it will be created the first time that `xcsoar` is
run.



## On Raspberry Pi and Cubieboard

Install the Debian package as described above.  However, unlike on “regular”
Linux, XCSoar will not use X11.  Instead, it runs full-screen on the Linux
console.

On the Raspberry Pi 4, you need to enable the VC4 display driver by
adding the following line to `/boot/config.txt`:

```
dtoverlay=vc4-fkms-v3d
```

XCSoar requires access to your input devices (`/dev/input/event*`).  By default,
only `root` is granted access.  To override this, create a `udev`
configuration file, e.g. `/etc/udev/rules.d/99-input.rules`:

```
KERNEL=="event*", NAME="input/%k", MODE="660", GROUP="input"
```

Create the group `input` and make your user a member:

```
groupadd input
adduser pi input
```
