---
title: Product history
description: XCSoar is a free, open-source soaring navigation software, developed by a global community since 2004.
---

XCSoar started as a commercial product developed by Mike Roberts (UK), where it
enjoyed a successful share of the market for several years and going though
several releases, the last being **Version 2**. Personal reasons prevented him
from being able to continue supporting the product and so in late 2004 he
announced the licensing of the source code to the GNU public license, as XCSoar
**Version 3**.  A support website on Yahoo Groups was set up and the open source
project started to gain interest and input by developers.

In March 2005 the program was substantially enhanced and this resulted in
**Version 4.0** being released.  By this time, coordination of the various
development efforts on the source code became difficult and time-consuming, so
it was decided to move the project to SourceForge, whereby all the software work
could be managed by a concurrent version management system.

In July 2005, **Version 4.2** was released which addressed some compatibility
issues that were experienced with certain PDA and GPS hardware configurations.

In September 2005, **Version 4.5** was released.  This contained major
enhancements to the user interface including the introduction of the `input
event' system and language translation files.

In April 2006, **Version 4.7** was released to Altair customers. This contained
stability and performance enhancements as well as many bug fixes; and a new
method for handling dialogues based on XML files.

In September 2006, **Version 5.0** was released on all platforms, Altair, PC,
PDA.  This version contains many improvements and new features and is based on
extensive testing in flight and in simulation.

In September 2007, **Version 5.1.2** was released on all platforms, Altair, PC,
PDA.  This version contains many improvements and new features and is based on
extensive testing in flight and in simulation.  Major improvements include a new
map file format incorporating JPG2000 compression, online contest support,
additional supported devices, FLARM radar screen, and overall improved
stability, reliability and accuracy of task calculations.  Many feature requests
from users have been incorporated into this release.

In February 2008, **Version 5.1.6** was released. This contained numerous
bugfixes and user interface enhancements, notably expanding the RASP and AAT
functionality.

In March 2009, **Version 5.2.2** was released. As well as user interface
improvements, several major features were introduced: IGC files were digitally
signed for validation in online contests such as OLC. Windows CE-based PNA
navigation devices were supported for the first time. FLARM was integrated with
the map display with support for the FlarmNet ID database. Developers could now
easily compile XCSoar from Linux desktop computers.

In August 2009, **Version 5.2.4** was released with internal fixes and
enhancements.

In December 2010, **Version 6.0** was released. Following an extensive rewrite
of much of the program, many stability and performance enhancements were made
and startup times were dramatically reduced. A great many features were added
including a vastly expanded task engine and editor, AAT support, new FLARM and
thermal-assistant displays. Many new languages were introduced, and new
translations could now be easily generated by users.

Significantly, the rewrite allowed XCSoar to run on UNIX-like systems and
Android devices, and the use of modern compiling tools enhanced the performance
of the program on the current generation of devices.

In March 2011, **Version 6.0.7b** was released, the first release to officially
support Android.

Early 2013: With **Version 6.4.5.** first results of a German and French manual
translation got published on the  XCSoar home page.

February 2012: **XCSoar is world champion** in Argentina! Tobias did a interview
with Santi on IRC (the modern way), read on here:
https://xcsoar.org/discover/2013/02/05/WGC_Argentina.html.

April 2013: **Version 6.6** was released. Six years after starting the version 6
rework of the  XCSoar engine the final outcome becomes visible on user interface
level. A remarkable pile of usability convenience condensed the  XCSoar value,
including the cross section map view.

May 2013: The Android  XCSoar installation counter for the stable release
crossed the 30,000 mark.
