---
title: Open source philosophy
description: "Free, community-driven soaring software: open source, transparent, and always improving."
---

There are several benefits to having software like XCSoar open source.

* Firstly, it is free so pilots can try out the software at no cost and decide
  if it is suitable for their needs; and pilots are free to copy the program
  onto whatever Pocket PC device, PC or EFIS they like without charge.
* You have access to the source code so you are free to change the software or
  use pieces of it in new free programs.
* Having the source code available on the Internet means that it is subject to
  wide scrutiny and therefore bugs are easily and quickly fixed.
* A large group of developers are available to help in troubleshooting and
  quickly implement new features upon request.
* Open source software under the GNU public license cannot at a later date be
  made closed-source; so by using this software you will not be locked in to
  unspecified software costs in the future.


The full terms of the licensing agreement for XCSoar is given in
Appendix~\ref{cha:gnu-general-public}.

The development of XCSoar since its open source release has been entirely a
volunteer effort.  This does not preclude individual developers or organisations
from offering commercial support services. The spirit of the project however
suggests that in such cases the commercial services are encouraged to produce
some flow-on benefit back to the wider community of users.
