---
title: Development process
description: XCSoar is mission-critical flight software, rigorously tested and actively maintained by volunteers.
---

We try to incorporate new features as quickly as possible.  This has to be
balanced by the needs to not change substantially the interface without
appropriate warnings so users that upgrade do not get a shock. This means that
when we introduced the new button menu system in version 4.5, it was necessary
to also distribute a file that allowed users to have the buttons assigned to
their “legacy” function.

XCSoar, being used in flight, is a special kind of software because it can be
regarded as “mission-critical”, and is a real-time system. This has placed a
very high emphasis on developers to perform a great deal of testing before
releasing changes to the public.  

Flight testing is certainly the best sort of test, but we have also been able to
conduct the bulk of testing by using XCSoar in a car, and more recently, by
replaying IGC flight logs.

In general, we don’t want the program to crash or hang, ever, and if it does so
during testing, then whatever bug caused the problem has to be fixed as top
priority.

The software developers all keep in contact with each other through the
SourceForge developer’s mailing list

xcsoar-devel@lists.sourceforge.net

We try to coordinate our activities to avoid conflict and duplicated effort, and
to work together as a team.  If you would like to get involved in the software
development, send the developers an email.
